---
id: 107
title: easy_cnc
date: 2015-08-15T03:30:12+00:00
author: nwalsh
layout: post
guid: http://nwalsh.me/?p=107
permalink: /?p=107
categories:
  - General
tags:
  - malware
  - open source malware
---
To enhance my learning and have some fun I have decided that I will create a very simple command-and-control system. The GitHub page can be found [here](https://github.com/nwalsh1995/easy_cnc) if you are interested in seeing the code.

From the moment of writing the script will simply connect to a local socket that is listening and transmit the external IP address and operating system information. This part of the scripts is so that the control server will be able to identify any clients that connect to it and give some basic information about them.

If you are interested in sockets, [this guide](http://www.binarytides.com/python-socket-programming-tutorial/), goes into detail about how you are able to set something like this up, and it is very easy.

My hopes for this project is that the control server will be able to issue commands to the clients on a timely basis (to avoid permanent connections being sent). For instance, this would entail that every X minutes the client checks in with the command server to see if it has any commands to execute. By setting it up like this, there is no &#8216;permanent&#8217; connection from the client to the control server. However, this means that the python file will always be executing (despite &#8216;sleeping&#8217;), leaving it as an active trace.

Note that in the script there are no automated exploits, as this is for learning purposes only.